# CSharpJExcel
A Git repository containing a copy of the C# port of the JExcelApi java library.

This port is based on jexcelapi version 2.6.12.
<https://sourceforge.net/projects/jexcelapi/>

- - -
# Original Java index.htm

Java Excel API - A Java API to read, write and modify Excel spreadsheets

This is the home page of Java Excel API - open source Java API which allows Java developers to read Excel spreadsheets and to generate Excel spreadsheets dynamically. In addition, it contains a mechanism which allows java applications to read in a spreadsheet, modify some cells and write out the new spreadsheet.  
  
This API allows non Windows operating systems to run pure Java applications which can both process and deliver Excel spreadsheets. Because it is Java, this API may be invoked from within a servlet, thus giving access to Excel functionality over internet and intranet web applications.  

Features

Reads data from Excel 95, 97, 2000 workbooks

Reads and writes formulas (Excel 97 and later only)

Generates spreadsheets in Excel 2000 format

Supports font, number and date formatting

Supports shading and colouring of cells

Modifies existing worksheets

Supports image creation

Preserves macros on copy

Customizable logging

Limitations

JExcelApi does not generate or chart, graph or macro information. This information is however preserved when spreadsheets are copied

When adding images to a sheet, only PNG image formats are supported

Getting started

The distribution comes with a number of demo programs which illustrate how the API may be used.

Reading Spreadsheets

When reading a spreadsheet, the demo programs may be used "as is" to convert Excel files to CSV and XML formats in a reasonable manner.  
  
<span class="technical">java -jar jxl.jar -csv myspreadsheet.xls</span>  
  
To view the spreadsheet as XML, invoke the demo as follows  
  
<span class="technical">java -jar jxl.jar -xml myspreadsheet.xls</span>  
  
In order to present the data the demo uses the classes xlrd/CSV.java and xlrd/XML.java respectively. For more sophisticated processing, these classes may be used as a starting point. Click [here](tutorial.html#reading) for a tutorial.  
  

Generating Spreadsheets

The write demo illustrates the functionality accessible within JExcelApi to generate spreadsheets. The spreadsheet generated by the demo includes different fonts, number formatting, date formatting, colours and borders.  
  
To generate the demo spreadsheet, invoke JExcelApi as follows:  
  
<span class="technical">java -jar jxl.jar -write myspreadsheet.xls</span>  
  
This will generate the sample spreadsheet called myspreadsheet.xls in the current working directory. The class used to generate this spreadheet is jxl/Write.java. This may be used as a starting point for bespoke processing.

Copying Spreadsheets

JExcelApi may be used to copy and modify a spreadsheet. Included with the JExcelApi is a spreadsheet called jxlrwtest.xls, which is hardcoded into the demo program. If this spreadsheet is passed as a command line argument to the demo, then a copy of this spreadsheet will be generated, with the second sheet containing modified values.  
  
DO NOT MODIFY THE DEMO SPREADSHEET otherwise the modification demo will not work.  
  
To run this demo, from the directory containing jxlrwtest.xls type  
  
<span class="technical">java -jar jxl.jar -rw jxlrwtest.xls myoutput.xls</span>  
  
This will generate an output spreadsheet called myoutput.xls. The first sheet (called "original") is unchanged, but the second sheet (called "modified" has had its cell contents changed, as indicated by the labels.  
  
The class for the modification demo is jxl/ReadWrite.java.

Requirements

JExcelApi requires Java 2 JDK to run.  
  
When dealing with large spreadsheets, particularly when using the copy functionality, it is recommended that users allocate sufficient memory to the JVM using the -Xms and -Xmx options on the java command line.

Installation

JExcelApi comes packaged as a zipped tar file, called something like jexcelapi\_2\_0.tar.gz. To unpack on UNIX systems, at the command line type  
  
<span class="technical">gunzip jexcelapi\_2\_0.tar.gz</span>      followed by  
<span class="technical">tar xf jexcelapi\_2\_0.tar</span>  
  
On Linux systems this can be accomplished within the single command  
  
<span class="technical">tar zxf jexcelapi\_2\_0.tar.gz</span>  
  
On Windows/NT systems, the archive may be unpacked visually using a utility such as Winzip.  
  
Whatever the unpacking process, the application will be placed in a subdirectory called jexcelapi. The top level directory contains this html page and the pre-built jar file, jxl.jar. The docs directory contains the javadoc documentation for the public classes, the build directory contains the buildfile (requires [ant](http://jakarta.apache.org/ant) ) and the src directory contains the source code for the java classes.

Excel Versions

JExcelApi will read workbooks created in Excel 95, 97 and 2000, and will generate workbooks that can be read by Excel 97 and later.

Licensing

JExcelApi is issued on under the GNU Lesser General Public License. For further information click [here](http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/lesser.html).

Further Notes

A [tutorial](tutorial.html) is available for those who wish guidance on how to use the API for reading, writing and copying spreadsheets.

When writing out spreadsheets, JExcelApi has limited support for graphs charts and macros during the copy process, but they cannot be created via the API.

For further technical information, including how JExcelApi handles dates and unicode characters, read the [technical notes](technotes.html)

[Download JExcelApi](download.html)  
  
[Change History](changehistory.html)  
  
  
  
I endeavour to answer all emails, but it's taking up more and more time. Before emailing me with a question please check the [FAQ](tutorial.html) first.  
  
Eric Jung has set up a <span class="smallhead">yahoo group</span>  [here](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/JExcelApi). As well as providing a discussion forum I will also post a message to this group whenever a new version of JExcelApi is released.  
  
Please check out these resources before emailing me - if I can keep the amount of time spent answering emails to a reasonable level then I can still expend effort on enhancing the software.  
[Contact me](mailto:andyk@andykhan.freeserve.co.uk)  
  
Stefano has ported JExcelApi to .net. You can access the software [here](http://nexcel.sourceforge.net)  
  

Make a Donation

JExcelApi is free software and will remain so. If JExcelApi has been of benefit to you or your company, perhaps you might like to make a voluntary donation to JExcelApi using PayPal  
  

[Return to my home directory](/)

This site last updated 10th April, 2005
